on a remote Antarctic island the change
in climate is leaving one sea bird at
the mercy of the forces of nature
grey-headed albatrosses are one of the
world's most endangered seabirds they
inhabit the stormy southern ocean that
surrounds the continent of Antarctica
nesting on isolated islands cameraman
John ancient s'en travelled to bird
island of South Georgia to film them for
the BBC series seven world's one planet
albatross is an ultimate wind bird
they're built with these massively long
wings for dealing with strong winds and
that's how they travel so far across the
open ocean how they go and find food and
they bring food back to their chicks
[Music]
it's wet here so their solution to that
is to build these elevated nest
platforms for their chicks
so the chicks can stay try each conical
nest is constructed from grass and mud
it's like a displaced and these raised
isolated nests should keep the chicks
safe but even here in the remotest
regions of the planet the albatrosses
are threatened by human activities
I've been to Bird Island twice before
and there's a catastrophic change
happening in their lives
over the past few decades the gray
headed albatross population here as hard
longline fishing by Antarctic trawlers
has been responsible for many albatross
deaths but there is a new danger which
could prove even more devastating as we
burn fossil fuels releasing more
greenhouse gases into the atmosphere
temperatures in the Antarctic are rising
and that change in climate is altering
weather patterns contributing to an
increase in storms and strong winds
problem is now it's becoming so windy
that the chicks are actually getting
blown off the nests many are unable to
climb back to safety
and those tricks are doomed so there's a
bird that lives by the wind that's now
suffering as the winds getting too
strong for them they'll all disappear
and over time I suppose people will
forget that they were even ever here
[Music]
just remember that the were things
called albatrosses but no one will see
them anymore
a legacy will be this grassy hillside
and not much house
[Music]
the plight at the gray-headed albatross
is a stark reminder that our impact on
the planet is now so great
we are threatening wildlife in even the
most isolated and inaccessible places on
earth and why efforts to reduce climate
change are more important than ever